midistar Copyright (C) 2018-2019 Jeremy Collette.

1. MIDISTAR LICENSE
midistar is free software that is released under the terms of the GNU General
Public License, version 3 (GPLv3), as published by the Free Software
Foundation. You can find a copy of this license in the 'GPLv3' file, which
should have been distributed with midistar. If not, you can find a copy at
<http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

All files that are in that are in this folder or the 'assets', 'doc',
'include/midistar', 'scripts', and 'src' folders and their sub-folders are
considered to be part of the midistar project, and are distributed under the
terms of this license. For clarification, all files in the 'external' folder and
its sub-folders, and every file in the 'include' folder except for those in the
'include/midistar' folder and its sub-folders, are NOT part of the midistar
project, and are not under the terms of the midistar license. Any binaries or
libraries that are built using files that are part of the midistar project also
fall under the jurisdiction of the GPLv3 license.


2. THIRD-PARTY LICENSES
midistar uses third-party libraries, utilities, and assets that are NOT
considered to be part of the midistar project, but are distributed with midistar
for ease-of-access and completeness. Each subfolder in the 'external' folder
contains a different third-party project that is used by midistar. The
'external/assets' folder contains third-party assets that are used by midistar.

These projects are licensed under their own terms and are NOT subject to the
terms of the midistar license. For licensing information about a specific third-
party project, refer to the 'LICENSE' and/or 'README' file in the folder that
contains the third-party project.

See the midistar 'README' file for a list of third-party libraries, utilities,
and assets that midistar uses, and their copyright holders. Each third-party
project remains unmodified.
