midistar Copyright (C) 2018 Jeremy Collette.

1. ABOUT MIDISTAR
midistar is a free music game that challenges users play a MIDI file with their
computer keyboard or a MIDI instrument, such as an electronic piano or drums.

midistar uses third-party libraries that are not considered to be part of the
midistar project, but are distributed with the midistar source for ease-of-
access and completeness. Each subfolder in the 'external' folder contains a
different third-party library that is used by midistar.

The following third-party libraries are used by (and distributed with)
midistar:
    * CLI11: Copyright (c) 2017-2018 University of Cincinnati.
    * fluidsynth: Copyright (C) 2003  Peter Hanappe and others.
    * midifile: Copyright (c) 1999-2018, Craig Stuart Sapp.
    * RtMidi: Copyright (c) 2003-2017 Gary P. Scavone.
    * SFML: Copyright (C) 2007-2017 Laurent Gomila.

Thanks to the developers and supporters of these libraries!

midistar is written in C++ using code (and shared libraries) that are
compatible with Linux, OSX, and Windows. However, at the current time, building
is only supported on Linux and OSX. That being said, building on Windows should
be possible.

Releases may not contain binaries for all (if any) platforms. Furthermore, the
instructions in this README are mainly written for Linux. However, they should
still be relevant for OSX, with minor differences.


2. RUNNING MIDISTAR
2.1 CONFIGURING MIDISTAR
midistar has configuration options that can be configured for varying levels of
customisation. Run midistar with the '--help' option to see a list of
configuration options. These can be set in the 'config.cfg' file, which can be
found in the midistar folder, or provided as command line arguments. Note that
the 'config.cfg' file will not be created until midistar has been built. It is
recommended to use absolute paths instead of relative paths in configuration
settings.

2.2 INSTALLING A SOUNDFONT FILE
Before running midistar, you will need to install a SoundFont file to use for
playing MIDI sounds. If you are using Debian or Ubuntu, you can run the
following command to install the FluidSynth general SoundFont:
    sudo apt-get install fluid-soundfont-gm

This should install a SoundFont file at the following location:
    '/usr/share/sounds/sf2/FluidR3_GM.sf2'

Configure midistar so that the 'soundfont_path' configuration option points to
the location of the newly installed SoundFont file. On Linux, it will point to
the above location by default.

2.3 STARTING FROM TERMINAL
If you have downloaded a midistar release with pre-built binaries for your
platform, you can start midistar with the `./run' command from a terminal that
is in the midistar directory. This executes a wrapper script that calls the
actual binary (in the 'build' folder). It is recommended to always use this
script instead of calling the binary directly. This allows the configuration
file to be found, ensures consistency of the working directory, and allows
environment variables to be set if required.

If there is not a midistar release with pre-built binaries for your platform,
or you have cloned the midistar repository, you will have to build midistar
from scratch before running. See the BUILDING section in this README.

2.4 PLAYING MIDISTAR
midistar will load the MIDI file supplied using the '--midi_file' command line
argument. The MIDI notes from this file will be rendered on the game screen in
real-time, falling from top to the bottom. During its fall, each MIDI note will
collide with the instrument bar near the bottom of the screen. During
collision, the MIDI note may be played by activating the corresponding note on
the instrument bar. The aim of midistar is to play each MIDI note as it
collides with the instrument bar, as precisely as possible.

The instrument bar can be activated in two ways. The first way is by using the
computer keyboard. The A-Z, 0-9, and some punctuation keys (dash, equals,
square brackets, semi-colon, quote, comma, period, and forward slash) are all
bound to activate different notes on the instrument bar. The note that is
activated can be shifted up by pressing the SHIFT key, or shifted down by
pressing the CONTROL key. This allows all possible MIDI notes to be played with
the keyboard.

The instrument bar can also be activated by using a MIDI instrument, which is
the recommended way to play midistar. Connect your MIDI instrument to the
computer running midistar using a MIDI to USB connection cable. You may have to
virtually 'attach' the MIDI input port to the midistar 'RtMidi' MIDI port,
depending on which platform and/or MIDI software you are using. Once you have
connected and attached a MIDI instrument, the midistar instrument bar can be
activated by playing the correlating note on the MIDI instrument.


3. BUILDING
3.1 CMAKE
'cmake' is required to build midistar and some of its third-party libraries. If
you are on Debian or Ubuntu, you can install cmake by using the command:
    sudo apt-get install cmake

The command will vary for other distributions and platforms.

3.2 BUILDING THIRD-PARTY LIBRARIES AUTOMATICALLY
Before building midistar, its third-party dependencies must be built. If you
are on Linux or OSX, you can try running the './scripts/build_setup' command
from a terminal in the midistar directory.

Please note that this command does not install prerequisites for the third-
party libraries (as the package names and managers differ between
distributions). As such, they may fail to build. When a build failure occurs,
read the console output and install any missing prerequisites before trying
again.

If you are on Linux using Debian or Ubuntu, you can install SFML prerequisites
with the following command:
    sudo apt-get install libpthread-stubs0-dev libgl1-mesa-dev libx11-dev
libxrandr-dev libfreetype6-dev libglew1.5-dev libjpeg8-dev libsndfile1-dev
libopenal-dev libudev-dev libxcb-image0-dev libjpeg-dev libflac-dev

3.3 BUILDING THIRD-PARTY LIBRARIES MANUALLY
If you cannot build the third-party libraries automatically, you can also build
them manually. Run the following commands to initialise and download the third-
party libraries:
    git submodule init
    git submodule update

Now, navigate to the 'external' folder. Each subfolder here is a separate
third-party library that must be successfully built before midistar can be
built and run. Refer to the instructions contained in each subfolder (likely in
a 'README' file) for how to build that specific library. Note that each library
may have their own prerequisites which you will have to resolve yourself.

When building third-party libraries, leave the folder structure as is. midistar
resolves third-party dependencies using the default locations for the header
and binary files for each library.

You can change which version of third-party libraries to use by changing which
commit the git submodule points to. Furthermore, if you want to use system-wide
installations of third-party libraries, you may do so. This may require further
build configuration.

3.4 BUILDING MIDISTAR
Once the required third-party libraries have been built, midistar can be built
using cmake. In the midistar directory, run the following commands:
    mkdir build
    cd build
    cmake -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release ..
    cd ..
    make -C build

This will build midistar. Note that this builds a Release build of midistar. If
you would like to build a Debug build, change the -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE option to
-DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug. If the build type option is omitted completely, a
Debug build should be built by default.

If the build is successful, the 'make' and 'run' scripts will be copied to the
midistar folder (the parent folder of the 'build' folder). The 'make' script
will rebuild midistar from the project folder, and the 'run' script will start
midistar. See the RUNNING MIDISTAR section for information on configuring and
running midistar.


4. LICENSE
Refer to the 'LICENSE' file for more information.

